debugd/docs/log_entries.md, before:

# Log Entries

This document describes what the log entries mean. Each entry has a matching
section. Please add a section here for new entries and some brief description of
what it means and how to parse it.

## CLIENT_ID

## DEVICETYPE

## LOGDATE

## amdgpu_gem_info

## amdgpu_gtt_mm

## amdgpu_vram_mm

## android_app_storage

## arcvm_console_output

## atmel_tp_deltas

## atmel_tp_refs

## atmel_ts_deltas

## atmel_ts_refs

## atrus_logs

## audit_log

Recent events in audit.log as generated by [auditd(8)].
Only includes audit events of type=SYSCALL and type=AVC (SELinux denials).

## authpolicy

## bio_crypto_init.LATEST

## bio_crypto_init.PREVIOUS

## bio_fw_updater.LATEST

## bio_fw_updater.PREVIOUS

## biod.LATEST

## biod.PREVIOUS

## bios_info

## bios_log

## bios_times

## blkid

## bootstat_summary

## borealis_frames

Frame timings from apps running in the Borealis VM. 16 KiB.

## borealis_xwindump

If the Borealis VM is running, displays a list of all Borealis windows and
each window's title, size, and other X properties, as seen by the X server.
Expected size is ~20 KiB.

## bt_usb_disconnects

## buddyinfo

Various virtual memory fragmentation details.  See the `/proc/buddyinfo` section
of the [proc(5)] man page for an explanation of each field.

## cbi_info

## cheets_log

## chrome_system_log

## chrome_system_log.PREVIOUS

## chromeos-pgmem

## clobber-state.log

## clobber.log

## console-ramoops

## cpuinfo

Various CPU & system architecture details.  Often shows exact CPU models and
supported hardware flags, as well as how many CPUs and cores that are available.
See the `/proc/cpuinfo` section of the [proc(5)] man page for more details.

## cr50_version

## cros_ec.log

## cros_ec.previous

## cros_ec_panicinfo

## cros_ec_pdinfo

## cros_fp.log

## cros_fp.previous

## cros_fp_panicinfo

[FPMCU] [Panic Data] in human readable form.

## cros_ish.log

## cros_ish.previous

## cros_scp.log

## cros_scp.previous

## cros_tp console

## cros_tp frame

## cros_tp version

## crostini

## crosvm.log

## display-debug

Logs collected from the 'display_debug' crosh tool, such as annotated drm_trace
logs and snapshots of the output of 'modetest'. The drm_trace logs are as
described below, but with additional categories enabled. See
http://go/cros-displaydebug for more details.

## dmesg

## drm_gem_objects

## drm_state

## drm_trace

Logs collected from the kernel's drm module. A subset of
[drm_debug_category messages](https://01.org/linuxgraphics/gfx-docs/drm/gpu/drm-internals.html#c.drm_debug_category)
are enabled and the tail of their output is collected here.

## drm_trace_legacy

Same as above, but for older kernel versions using a legacy drm_trace
implementation.

## ec_info

## edid-decode

## eventlog

## folder_size_dump

The folder_size_dump helper dumps the actual disk usage (in bytes) of various
system folders by calling
`du --human-readable --total --summarize --one-file-system`.
The list of folders and filtering can be found in `folder_size_dump.cc`. Each
entry calls du individually with a sorted list of subfolders.

The output of the `df` command is available separately for comparison.

0 sized entries are filtered out to reduce the size of the report, this does not
provide a complete folder contents listing.

## font_info

## framebuffer

## fwupd_state

## hammerd

## hardware_class

## hardware_verification_report

## hostname

## i915_error_state

## i915_gem_gtt

## i915_gem_objects

## ifconfig

## input_devices

## interrupts

Per-CPU interrupt statistics.  See the `/proc/interrupts` section of the
[proc(5)] man page for an explanation of each field.

## iw_list

## kernel-crashes

## logcat

## lpstat

Information about connected printer and scanner devices produced by `lpstat -l
-r -v -a -p -o`. Produces ~22 lines of output for each device.

## lsblk

## lsmod

## lspci

## lsusb

## lvs

Information about LVM logical volumes.

## mali_memory

## memd clips

## memd.parameters

## meminfo

Various memory usage statistics.  See the `/proc/meminfo` section of the
[proc(5)] man page for an explanation of each field.

## memory_spd_info

## mm-esim-status

## mm-status

## modetest

## mount-encrypted

## mountinfo

File system mount information from the init process's mount namespace. See
https://www.kernel.org/doc/html/latest/filesystems/sharedsubtree.html for what
it means.

## netlog

## netstat

## network-devices

## network-services

## nvmap_iovmm

## oemdata

## pagetypeinfo

## pchg_info

## platform_identity_customization_id

## platform_identity_model

## platform_identity_name

## platform_identity_sku

## platform_identity_whitelabel_tag

## power_supply_info

## power_supply_sysfs

## powerd.LATEST

## powerd.PREVIOUS

## powerd.out

## powerwash_count

## ps

## pvs

Information about LVM physical volumes.

## qcom_fw_info

## sensor_info

## slabinfo

Kernel memory allocator/cache statistics.  See the [slabinfo(5)] man page for an
explanation of each field.

## stateful_trim_data

## stateful_trim_state

## storage_info

## swap_info

## syslog

## system_log_stats

## threads

## tlsdate

## top memory

## top thread

## touch_fw_version

## tpm-firmware-updater

## tpm_version

## typec_connector_class

Information about the state of USB Type-C ports, partners and cables from the
USB Type-C connector class.

## typecd

## ui_log

## uname

Short summary of the current system information from the [uname(1)] command.
It will include the [Linux kernel](https://www.kernel.org/) version (including
the git commit), when the kernel was compiled, and some details for the system's
CPU.

## update_engine.log

## upstart

## uptime

The current system [uptime(1)] in seconds, including time spent in suspend.
In other words, how long since the system was booted.

## usb4 devices

## verified boot

## vmlog.1.LATEST

## vmlog.1.PREVIOUS

## vmlog.LATEST

## vmlog.PREVIOUS

## vmstat

Various virtual memory statistics.  See the `/proc/vmstat` section of the
[proc(5)] man page for an explanation of each field.

## vpd_2.0

## wifi_status_no_anonymize

## zram block device stat names

## zram block device stat values

block I/O statistics for zram, space-delimited, documented at
https://www.kernel.org/doc/html/latest/block/stat.html

Useful to know how many I/O happened and how much time was spent using zram
swap.

## zram new stats names

## zram new stats values

Memory management related statistics for zram from /sys/block/zram0/, Documented
at https://www.kernel.org/doc/html/latest/admin-guide/blockdev/zram.html#stats

Useful to know how much memory is being stored compressed in zram.

[auditd(8)]: https://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man8/auditd.8.html
[FPMCU]: https://chromium.googlesource.com/chromiumos/platform/ec/+/HEAD/docs/fingerprint/fingerprint.md
[Panic Data]: https://chromium.googlesource.com/chromiumos/platform/ec/+/HEAD/README.md#Panicinfo
[proc(5)]: https://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man5/proc.5.html
[slabinfo(5)]: https://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man5/slabinfo.5.html
[uname(1)]: https://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man1/uname.1.html
[uptime(1)]: https://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man1/uptime.1.html

Commit message:

debugd: Dump user folder sizes in chrome://system
Dump user folder sizes in chrome://system, but not in feedback
reports.

BUG=chromium:1296517, chromium:1231192
TEST=manual

Change-Id: Icda769cf829f86ffe10dcd10e6076580d9c84b88
Reviewed-on: https://chromium-review.googlesource.com/c/chromiumos/platform2/+/3452624
Reviewed-by: Mike Frysinger <vapier@chromium.org>
Tested-by: Victor-Gabriel Savu <vsavu@google.com>
Commit-Queue: Victor-Gabriel Savu <vsavu@google.com>
(cherry picked from commit e1f04b9c21cb6a5ea017c8811923e9415f7bb710)
Reviewed-on: https://chromium-review.googlesource.com/c/chromiumos/platform2/+/3483955

debugd/docs/log_entries.md, after:

# Log Entries

This document describes what the log entries mean. Each entry has a matching
section. Please add a section here for new entries and some brief description of
what it means and how to parse it.

## CLIENT_ID

## DEVICETYPE

## LOGDATE

## amdgpu_gem_info

## amdgpu_gtt_mm

## amdgpu_vram_mm

## android_app_storage

## arcvm_console_output

## atmel_tp_deltas

## atmel_tp_refs

## atmel_ts_deltas

## atmel_ts_refs

## atrus_logs

## audit_log

Recent events in audit.log as generated by [auditd(8)].
Only includes audit events of type=SYSCALL and type=AVC (SELinux denials).

## authpolicy

## bio_crypto_init.LATEST

## bio_crypto_init.PREVIOUS

## bio_fw_updater.LATEST

## bio_fw_updater.PREVIOUS

## biod.LATEST

## biod.PREVIOUS

## bios_info

## bios_log

## bios_times

## blkid

## bootstat_summary

## borealis_frames

Frame timings from apps running in the Borealis VM. 16 KiB.

## borealis_xwindump

If the Borealis VM is running, displays a list of all Borealis windows and
each window's title, size, and other X properties, as seen by the X server.
Expected size is ~20 KiB.

## bt_usb_disconnects

## buddyinfo

Various virtual memory fragmentation details.  See the `/proc/buddyinfo` section
of the [proc(5)] man page for an explanation of each field.

## cbi_info

## cheets_log

## chrome_system_log

## chrome_system_log.PREVIOUS

## chromeos-pgmem

## clobber-state.log

## clobber.log

## console-ramoops

## cpuinfo

Various CPU & system architecture details.  Often shows exact CPU models and
supported hardware flags, as well as how many CPUs and cores that are available.
See the `/proc/cpuinfo` section of the [proc(5)] man page for more details.

## cr50_version

## cros_ec.log

## cros_ec.previous

## cros_ec_panicinfo

## cros_ec_pdinfo

## cros_fp.log

## cros_fp.previous

## cros_fp_panicinfo

[FPMCU] [Panic Data] in human readable form.

## cros_ish.log

## cros_ish.previous

## cros_scp.log

## cros_scp.previous

## cros_tp console

## cros_tp frame

## cros_tp version

## crostini

## crosvm.log

## display-debug

Logs collected from the 'display_debug' crosh tool, such as annotated drm_trace
logs and snapshots of the output of 'modetest'. The drm_trace logs are as
described below, but with additional categories enabled. See
http://go/cros-displaydebug for more details.

## dmesg

## drm_gem_objects

## drm_state

## drm_trace

Logs collected from the kernel's drm module. A subset of
[drm_debug_category messages](https://01.org/linuxgraphics/gfx-docs/drm/gpu/drm-internals.html#c.drm_debug_category)
are enabled and the tail of their output is collected here.

## drm_trace_legacy

Same as above, but for older kernel versions using a legacy drm_trace
implementation.

## ec_info

## edid-decode

## eventlog

## folder_size_dump

The folder_size_dump helper dumps the actual disk usage (in bytes) of various
system folders by calling
`du --human-readable --total --summarize --one-file-system`.
The list of folders and filtering can be found in `folder_size_dump.cc`. Each
entry calls du individually with a sorted list of subfolders.

The output of the `df` command is available separately for comparison.

0 sized entries are filtered out to reduce the size of the report, this does not
provide a complete folder contents listing.

## font_info

## framebuffer

## fwupd_state

## hammerd

## hardware_class

## hardware_verification_report

## hostname

## i915_error_state

## i915_gem_gtt

## i915_gem_objects

## ifconfig

## input_devices

## interrupts

Per-CPU interrupt statistics.  See the `/proc/interrupts` section of the
[proc(5)] man page for an explanation of each field.

## iw_list

## kernel-crashes

## logcat

## lpstat

Information about connected printer and scanner devices produced by `lpstat -l
-r -v -a -p -o`. Produces ~22 lines of output for each device.

## lsblk

## lsmod

## lspci

## lsusb

## lvs

Information about LVM logical volumes.

## mali_memory

## memd clips

## memd.parameters

## meminfo

Various memory usage statistics.  See the `/proc/meminfo` section of the
[proc(5)] man page for an explanation of each field.

## memory_spd_info

## mm-esim-status

## mm-status

## modetest

## mount-encrypted

## mountinfo

File system mount information from the init process's mount namespace. See
https://www.kernel.org/doc/html/latest/filesystems/sharedsubtree.html for what
it means.

## netlog

## netstat

## network-devices

## network-services

## nvmap_iovmm

## oemdata

## pagetypeinfo

## pchg_info

## platform_identity_customization_id

## platform_identity_model

## platform_identity_name

## platform_identity_sku

## platform_identity_whitelabel_tag

## power_supply_info

## power_supply_sysfs

## powerd.LATEST

## powerd.PREVIOUS

## powerd.out

## powerwash_count

## ps

## pvs

Information about LVM physical volumes.

## qcom_fw_info

## sensor_info

## slabinfo

Kernel memory allocator/cache statistics.  See the [slabinfo(5)] man page for an
explanation of each field.

## stateful_trim_data

## stateful_trim_state

## storage_info

## swap_info

## syslog

## system_log_stats

## threads

## tlsdate

## top memory

## top thread

## touch_fw_version

## tpm-firmware-updater

## tpm_version

## typec_connector_class

Information about the state of USB Type-C ports, partners and cables from the
USB Type-C connector class.

## typecd

## ui_log

## uname

Short summary of the current system information from the [uname(1)] command.
It will include the [Linux kernel](https://www.kernel.org/) version (including
the git commit), when the kernel was compiled, and some details for the system's
CPU.

## update_engine.log

## upstart

## uptime

The current system [uptime(1)] in seconds, including time spent in suspend.
In other words, how long since the system was booted.

## usb4 devices

## user_folder_size_dump

Dumps the size of all folders inside the primary user's folder and the size of
all daemon stores for all mounted users.

## verified boot

## vmlog.1.LATEST

## vmlog.1.PREVIOUS

## vmlog.LATEST

## vmlog.PREVIOUS

## vmstat

Various virtual memory statistics.  See the `/proc/vmstat` section of the
[proc(5)] man page for an explanation of each field.

## vpd_2.0

## wifi_status_no_anonymize

## zram block device stat names

## zram block device stat values

block I/O statistics for zram, space-delimited, documented at
https://www.kernel.org/doc/html/latest/block/stat.html

Useful to know how many I/O happened and how much time was spent using zram
swap.

## zram new stats names

## zram new stats values

Memory management related statistics for zram from /sys/block/zram0/, Documented
at https://www.kernel.org/doc/html/latest/admin-guide/blockdev/zram.html#stats

Useful to know how much memory is being stored compressed in zram.

[auditd(8)]: https://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man8/auditd.8.html
[FPMCU]: https://chromium.googlesource.com/chromiumos/platform/ec/+/HEAD/docs/fingerprint/fingerprint.md
[Panic Data]: https://chromium.googlesource.com/chromiumos/platform/ec/+/HEAD/README.md#Panicinfo
[proc(5)]: https://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man5/proc.5.html
[slabinfo(5)]: https://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man5/slabinfo.5.html
[uname(1)]: https://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man1/uname.1.html
[uptime(1)]: https://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man1/uptime.1.html
